docs: document rules (#700)
asyncapi/parser-js: docs/ruleset/v2-recommended-ruleset.md

# AsyncAPI v2 Recommended Ruleset

The recommended ruleset, which verify good practices when writing the `2.x.x` specifications structure.

> **Note**
> These rules will only apply to AsyncAPI `2.x.x` documents.

## Rules

### asyncapi2-tags

> AsyncAPI object should have non-empty `tags` array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AsyncAPI object should have a non-empty `tags` array.
```

#### Good example

```yaml
asyncapi: 2.0.0
info:
  title: Valid AsyncAPI document
  version: 1.0
tags:
  - e-commerce
servers: {...}
```

#### Bad example

```yaml
asyncapi: 2.0.0
info:
  title: Invalid AsyncAPI document
  version: 1.0
servers: {...}
```

### asyncapi2-server-no-empty-variable

> Server URL variable declarations cannot be empty, e.g. `gigantic-server.com/{}` is invalid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server URL variable declarations cannot be empty (e.g., `gigantic-server.com/{}` is invalid).
```

#### Good example

```yaml
asyncapi: 2.0.0
info:
  title: Valid AsyncAPI document
  version: 1.0
servers:
  production:
    url: test.{variable}.mosquitto.org
    variables:
      variable: {...}
```

#### Bad example

```yaml
asyncapi: 2.0.0
info:
  title: Invalid AsyncAPI document
  version: 1.0
servers:
  production:
    url: test.{}.mosquitto.org
```

### asyncapi2-server-no-trailing-slash

Server URL should not have a trailing slash.

Some tooling forgets to strip trailing slashes off when it's joining the `$.servers.[*].url` with channels, and you can get awkward URLs like `mqtt://example.com/broker//pets`. Best to just strip them off yourself.

#### Good example

```yaml
asyncapi: 2.0.0
info:
  title: Valid AsyncAPI document
  version: 1.0
servers:
  production:
    url: example.com/broker
```

#### Bad example

```yaml
asyncapi: 2.0.0
info:
  title: Invalid AsyncAPI document
  version: 1.0
servers:
  production:
    url: example.com/broker/
```

### asyncapi2-channel-no-empty-parameter

> Channel parameter declarations cannot be empty, e.g. `./given/{}` is invalid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Channel parameter declarations cannot be empty (e.g., `./given/{}` is invalid).
```

Query parameters and fragments shouldn't be used in channel names. Instead, use bindings to define them.

#### Good example

```yaml
asyncapi: 2.0.0
info:
  title: Valid AsyncAPI document
  version: 1.0
channels:
  users/{userId}/signedUp: {...}
```

#### Bad example

```yaml
asyncapi: 2.0.0
info:
  title: Invalid AsyncAPI document
  version: 1.0
channels:
  users/{userId}/signedOut?query={...}: {...}
  users/{userId}/signedOut#hash: {...}
```

### asyncapi2-channel-no-trailing-slash

Keep trailing slashes off of channel names, as it can cause some confusion. Most messaging protocols will treat `example/foo` and `example/foo/` as different things. Keep in mind that tooling may replace slashes (`/`) with protocol-specific notation (e.g.: `.` for AMQP), therefore, a trailing slash may result in an invalid channel name in some protocols.

#### Good example

```yaml
asyncapi: 2.0.0
info:
  title: Valid AsyncAPI document
  version: 1.0
channels:
  users/{userId}/signedUp: {...}
```

#### Bad example

```yaml
asyncapi: 2.0.0
info:
  title: Invalid AsyncAPI document
  version: 1.0
channels:
  users/{userId}/signedUp/: {...}
```

### asyncapi2-operation-operationId

> `operationId` should be defined in each operation. `operationId` is essentially a reference for the operation. Tools may use it for defining function names, class method names, and even URL hashes in documentation systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `operationId` should be defined in each operation, essentially as an operation reference. Tools may use `operationId` for defining function names, class method names, and even URL hashes in documentation systems.
```

#### Good example

```yaml
asyncapi: 2.0.0
info:
  title: Valid AsyncAPI document
  version: 1.0
servers: {...}
channels:
  smartylighting.streetlights.1.0.action.{streetlightId}.turn.on:
    publish:
      operationId: turnOn
  smartylighting.streetlights.1.0.action.{streetlightId}.turn.off:
    publish:
      operationId: turnOff
```

#### Bad example

```yaml
asyncapi: 2.0.0
info:
  title: Invalid AsyncAPI document
  version: 1.0
servers: {...}
channels:
  smartylighting.streetlights.1.0.action.{streetlightId}.turn.on:
    publish:
      operationId: turn
  smartylighting.streetlights.1.0.action.{streetlightId}.turn.off:
    publish: {...} # without `operationId`
```

### asyncapi2-message-messageId

> `messageId` should be defined in each message. `messageId` is essentially a reference for the message. Tools may use it for defining function names, class method names, and even URL hashes in documentation systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `messageId` should be defined in each message, essentially a message reference. Tools may use `messageId` for defining function names, class method names, and even URL hashes in documentation systems.
```

#### Good example

```yaml
asyncapi: 2.4.0
info:
  title: Valid AsyncAPI document
  version: 1.0
servers: {...}
channels:
  smartylighting.streetlights.1.0.action.{streetlightId}.turn.on:
    publish:
      message:
        messageId: turnOnMessage
  smartylighting.streetlights.1.0.action.{streetlightId}.turn.off:
    publish:
      message:
        messageId: turnOffMessage
```

#### Bad example

```yaml
asyncapi: 2.4.0
info:
  title: Invalid AsyncAPI document
  version: 1.0
servers: {...}
channels:
  smartylighting.streetlights.1.0.action.{streetlightId}.turn.on:
    publish:
      message:
        messageId: turnMessage
  smartylighting.streetlights.1.0.action.{streetlightId}.turn.off:
    publish:
      message: {...} # without `messageId`
```

### asyncapi2-unused-securityScheme

> Potentially unused security scheme has been detected in AsyncAPI document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A potentially unused security scheme has been detected in the AsyncAPI document.
```
